So let's move on from sort of
the organic side of SEO and
talk a little bit about Ads.
So Ads have gotten better and
better and better over time.
This is a huge business, online Ads.
And the reason it's a huge
business is because by and large,
it's pretty effective when
used in certain ways.
The thing that makes it most effective is
targeting for Ads is getting better and
better and better.
So when I was working at Yahoo,
we would be able to kind of take all of
this audience that was coming to
like Yahoo related properties.
And we could allow people to market
to a 25 to 35 year old male or
female in the Minneapolis metro area.
Who's likely to have a college
education and own a Mercedes Benz.
Like we could get that specific and
come up with 40,000 people,
that statistically meet that criteria.
They have some likelihood
of meeting that criteria.
And this has to do with
all of the data that is
used in your free apps like Gmail and
Yahoo mail in all of your searches.
All of that is sort of anonymously
aggregated over time, right?
So, it's not associated with your name,
it's associated with a unique ID.
And all of these companies
are very careful to keep a wall
between the personal data, and sort of
the advertising, tracking stuff, right?
So even as like someone that
could deploy a version of Yahoo's
ad platform on my own wholesale, I could
never get access to the personal data.
If there was just,
I would need like a hand scan access and
to be like inside the data center.
Just the security there is crazy, for
good reason to keep customers safe.
But more and more targeting is really,
really powerful
in terms of interests, in terms of
demographic, in terms of location.
So, for example,
when I have public workshops,
in person workshops, I want it to
be near an international airport.
In a place where there is
a pretty vibrant tech community,
where English is a reasonably
prominent language there.
And I can really target
my advertising dollars,
in little tiny islands all over the world.
Skip over countries where maybe
the average income of a developer,
is a little bit lower than what I
would be asking for a ticket price.
It makes it not sort of a feasible
cost for them to pay, and so on.
So this is getting better and
better and better year over year.
Advertising it's
reasonably cost effective,
it depends what your business is, But
if you can get your keywords right.
There's sort of a, it's one of these
things where there's an expert can do much
better than someone who
puts no effort into it.
Meaning, if you do your research and you
find your keywords, and we go and look for
those longtail keyword phrases.
You will be able to deploy
your advertising dollars,
twice as well as you would if
you just tried to have asset.
You can deploy a marketing
budget when it matters.
So if you're gearing up for
an acquisition, or
maybe you have a holiday sale and you
wanna just drive a whole bunch of traffic.
Because it's important to get a certain
number of customers at a particular time.
Or if you have an in person event,
if you're running a trade show and
you wanna like.
Get out there and advertising dollars
leading up to that matter a lot and
the day after we can just
not advertise at all.
So, it's a spigot that you can turn on and
off, really easily compared to.
If you bought a billboard they don't
wanna put your billboard up for
three days and then take it down.
No other business works that
way where you can sort of,
have that really fast on off
switch that's totally up to you.
You get a really short feedback loop.
So when we think about advertising,
oftentimes you'll have a campaign.
Which is that is your overall effort
towards this goal of bringing in new
customers.
And within the campaign
you'll have line items.
And line items are usually picking
out particular segments of people,
they might be particular sets of keywords.
And you'll buy like X number of dollars
targeted towards these keywords,
and some targeted towards these keywords.
Oftentimes, you'll have experimental
line items that you'll put in there and
you'll say, I don't,
I teach functional JavaScript.
And I know I don't teach Elm, But
people who use Elm might find my
functional JavaScript course useful.
Because Elm is a functional language, and
ultimately it ends up being JavaScript.
So let's just try taking $50 out of my
ad budget and targeted towards Elm.
And let's see if maybe these
people respond or they don't.
But you're gonna know
within a couple of days,
just because the volume of searching is so
high.
And you're gonna get a signal,
one way or the other, it'll wash out and
then you've spent $50 to get your answer.
Or you'll figure out that hey,
this is really doing well,
let's put some more budget in here.
And nowhere else,
do I see a short feedback loop like this.
Not even Google analytics where
you're writing, a nice blog post and
then seeing who hits it.
Then you have to wait for all the readers
to find your link, you have to wait for
that to spread.
That might be on the scale of
a month that it takes, for
you to look at your traffic and
to see like.
All right, this is really resonating
with this new group, let's act on that.
You have control over risk, which in
the next slide when we talk about pricing,
we can talk about.
How they're different options for
paying for Ads, ranging from
taking on all the risk that someone who
sees your message, sees your business.
You have taken on all the risk
that they might not act,
versus asking the advertising
platform to take on all the risk.
And you only pay when someone acts.
And I'd like to run this out by saying,
despite the fact that,
it is cost effective most of the time,
that the short feedback loop exists.
You have to really stay on it, and this
doesn't work for every business, right?
And in fact, I have turned my
advertising budget down quite a bit,
because I found that for
in person trainings, right?
Which is my business, going to conferences
and meeting people face to face there.
That is by large the best way for
me to get new customers, right?
Online Ads just people don't search and
they don't engage with a trainer
by searching for them online.
So I would say if it turns out to not
work, and maybe you've tried two or
three different approaches.
Don't keep pumping money
into this blindly,
assuming that this is a part
of every business strategy.
For some businesses, it's just not.
So let's look at the way Ad
campaigns are typically priced.
This is ranging from taking on
all of the risks that someone
might not convert and
having the cheapest Ads.
Ranging towards only paying for guaranteed
conversion for the most expensive Ads.
So we begin with CPM pricing.
So this is cost per 1000 impressions, and
ad platforms are happy to sell as much
of this as you're willing to buy, right?
Cuz this is just like if they think that
this is someone that matches
the criteria you've specified.
They'll put your ad on the screen, they'll
actually hook into the some of the browser
functions that monitor whether that image
actually gets painted on the screen.
So as you scroll the page up,
this actually makes sure that
your ad was in the viewport, and
is counted as an impression.
Oftentimes, it has to get like fully
into the viewport above the fold.
And you get 1000 of those for
a fixed amount of money, right?
And this can also be done by bidding,
where you know there's gonna when
people that match your criteria,
their browsing may need to fill in an ad.
There will be a little mini bidding war,
to see who gets it and
then after 10 milliseconds, someone's won
the bidding war and your ad gets served.
So but again, you could show
your Ads to 100,000 people and
none of them could click,
and you'll still get built.
So if you wanna offset some of that risk,
pay a little more for
a little more certainty.
You would go to cost per click,
and here you're paying for
someone to actually follow that ad,
click on it and land on your site, right?
And this is where, it's on you
with to have a great landing page,
that has a clear call to action.
And it's really, totally clear how
you should proceed from there on
because this is sort of your
first signal of intent, right?
They've clicked on it,
they're interested, go for it.
You have to be careful
with cost per click,
because the ad platforms goal is
to make as much money as they can.
And if it turns out that no one's clicking
on your ad, at the end of the month.
You'll have said like,
I'm willing to spend $1,000 on this ad and
they'll say, very good, sir.
You ended up spending $3
of your advertising budget.
We showed it to a bunch of people,
no one bit on the hook.
And so
we decided to show other people's Ads, so
that we could make money
off of their clicks.
So, bidding too low on cost per click,
will result in not all of your
advertising budget being deployed.
So this is the kind of thing that you
wanna tune properly and typically,
it's almost like this price
is right rules or something?
No, it's not prices right rule?
So you ended up paying it's eBay rules,
that's it.
So you can bid $10,
maximum bid of $10 for cost per click.
And more often than not,
the policy is like you will pay one cent
more than the person you barely edged out.
So if your competitor was only willing to
pay $2, you'll pay 201 for that click.
So you don't end up like your maximum bid
is not what you're paying on a per click
basis, but
it's where you're out of the running.
You say like that's,
it's too rich for my blood.
So going one step deeper, like let's say,
okay, well, I wanna offset even more risk.
People are clicking,
they're not converting.
They're not filling in my sign up form.
So then we'd have what's
called cost per action.
Some people call this cost per conversion,
don't be confused,
CPC always means cost per click.
And the idea here,
this is more common when you're dealing
with a referral kind of relationship.
So, if there's a business that
sort of upstream from yours,
maybe like Mark, would have
a relationship with a coding bootcamp.
Where like after they complete the coding
bootcamp, they get like a coupon code and
a signup form for front end masters.
And that is a directed path where
it's like highly qualified people
that are likely to convert.
What would happen is Mark,
would put what's called a pixel
at the end of some signup flow.
And loading that pixel represents having
reached the end of the signup flow.
This is literally a one pixel
by one pixel transparent image.
And it just serves to be proof that
someone reached that location,
and they had this cookie in their browser.
And that constitutes them having gone
from one site through the other flow and
reaching the end, and
that would be a conversion.
So you'll pay pretty dearly for this.
Definitely, on the order of $15 to $100,
something like this.
But the idea is now you've got someone
that's actually filled something in,
they're on your mailing list.
And you would look at this,
this would be a big part of your customer
acquisition cost in business terms, right?
There's a variant of this
that exists in Ad platforms,
called cost per install that
is unique to mobile apps.
And this is where you're trying to get
someone to install this game and whatnot.
And when the install completes,
there's a little callback URL,
you can place in the App Store link.
Which will kind of serve
the same purpose of the pixel,
in that it'll notify the party
who is paying for this.
That the install has completed and
you have one more install and
we're billing you for one more